---
title: "AI assisted code"
date: 2024-12-21
categories: [blog]
tags: [Thoughts, Coding, Programming, AI]
---
## Introduction
You know, recently, the biggest trend always has something to do with AI. Whether it has to do with the conflicted acceptance of AI usage, like in AI art, or as an academic cheat engine. Or how corporations, after witnessing ChatGPT's success, are obsessed with making their versions, whether it is Google with their Gemini or X with their Grok, people are obsessed with the concept of AI. Now comes the idea of how AI gives people a competitive edge against those who do not. 

## ChatGPT
Let's start with the idea of AI-assisted code. For background, I have not used an IDE for years and typically write all my code through the command line so when I heard about IDE adding functionality for AI-generated code I was interested. Start with ChatGPT and its effectiveness or ineffectiveness in writing functionally working code based on a given prompt. Most of the code written by ChatGPT depends on the complexity of the given task at hand. Usually, for complex tasks for the first generation of the answer, if not prompted, would add functions or variables that are used but never defined. This is to say for code generation ChatGPT is ok for simple tasks and not reliable for more complex tasks. 

## Visual Studios
Now add in the idea of an AI that not only writes the code but can physically show the process of debugging and running the code allowing the user to use the prompt to add or delete specific items. Visual Studios Copilot is a great example of this. This application combines the typical IDE and implements a way to write, test, and run machine-generated code. This makes the coding portion fairly simple. For simple jobs such as querying or adding a visual representation of the existing code, the AI model can do in seconds. For more complex jobs, as of right now, AI models do not have that good of a track record of writing code for the specific set of uses and functionality you want. If you want some real-world examples, data analysis is made significantly easier using machine-generated code as the core process of the implementation of the visualization code is autogenerated. It also allows for a quick and easy process to perform a live analysis of the data by asking the AI to write the specific queries it needs quickly. 

## Issues
There are numerous problems with AI-generated code such sets a dangerous precedence of a reliance on the AI to write code, which leads to lower standards in general. It also means that the person writing the code does not actually need to understand how the code actually functions, which is an extreme cybersecurity risk. It is more difficult to solve a problem if you cannot identify the actual problem to begin with. Something that also needs to be apparent is that AI does not always give the right answers as it depends on a variety of reasons, such as the actual prompt or the data feed to the machine. This means that the answers and responses the machine gives can be outdated or outright wrong. 
	
## Conclusion
There are numerous questions, and the usability of AI-generated code, such as who owns the code or whether is it right to use AI-generated code that may contain propriety/plagiarized code. This blog post will not be covering that in its entirety, it is simply understanding the reasons why AI-generated code is so popular with businesses and why it is not. AI tools are not going to go away anytime soon, corporations love it as it reduces their costs of hiring more workers, and students like it as it helps them academically. Since a widespread tool exists, may as well learn how to use it to your advantage. Use it as a tool, not as a crutch. 
