---
title: "Github and its effect in interviews"
date: 2024-12-21
categories: [blog]
tags: [interview, Github, thoughts, article]
---
## Introduction
I was reading an archived article sourced from http://mindhacks.cn/2011/11/04/how-to-interview-a-person-for-two-years, which discussed how the relatively new software at the time, GitHub, was revolutionizing the traditional interview process." The article highlighted many ways in which the collaborative aspect of GitHub could provide interviewers with a quicker and more efficient method of determining whether the person meets their requirements. The original website, written in Chinese, is sadly defunct, but the full context of the article can be found under my Github repository in the articles folder [Article](https://github.com/Haru1O1/Haru1O1.github.io/blob/master/articles/MindHacks_Two_Year_Interview_Article.pdf).

## Github in the interview process
Let's begin by understanding the specific time and background of the article, which was written in 2011 and written by a Chinese individual looking at Github's current use in countries like America. This was around three years after the introduction of GitHub and Stack Overflow, two platforms that were crucial in the collaborative aspect of the tech community today. He also notices the trend of more companies requiring or asking for a Github as one of the requirements along with the resume. I would say this has changed as it is not really that companies require a Github repository but like a cover letter it does not hurt to have one. Most companies unless you explicitly tell them you have some projects you want to show off in your Github will not tend to look at it. Additionally, most of the projects that most people are proud of are likely either company work and/or under NDA. His thoughts on how companies should give clearer goals and suggestions to ensure the candidate does not become lost in understanding how to reach the company's needs is really interesting. On one hand, it makes more sense as it allows the candidates to understand what the company they are currently applying to wants from them, and they are then motivated to follow that direction. On the other hand, it reduces the creativity and uniqueness each candidate performs in the interviews with more detailed wants in needs it reduces the candidates' ability to show how they are the most suitable for the job at hand. How you portray yourself in front of the interviewers matters the most. It does not matter how knowledgeable you are; if you cannot convince the interviewer that you are the right fit for the job in the limited time provided, you will not get the job.

## Conclusion
In the end, a GitHub profile or repository shows the company proof of your competence but is usually treated the same as a cover letter; it is not typically a crucial aspect in interviews, you are.
